[THUNDER SOUNDS]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>TIFFANY BARSOTTI: I have
been discredited and removed
from many people's
tribe, if you will.
>>REGINA MEREDITH:
And I have too.
>>BARSOTTI: Yeah.
I see this as an initiation.
We are in a time of
becoming an initiate
or you're going to go the
way of indoctrination.
This is the menticide.
And the indoctrination is
not usually of your making.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>BARSOTTI: Essentially, telling
you what you believe to be true
isn't and their
reality is the truth.
>>REGINA: Right.
This is an epidemic right now.
>>BARSOTTI: Confusion is always
coming from outside ourselves.
Internally, we're
never confused.
We know.
When we are being
in our power, we're
actually helping our
beloved goddess Mother Earth
because our beloved Earth has
the ability to compost it.
We need all hands on deck and we
need the emotional sensitivity
now.
We don't need to be so mental.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>REGINA: We're in
a time when we're
being made to feel crazy in
what's being called menticide
or genocide of the mind.
One of the
crazy-making practices
is called gaslighting.
It's happening both collectively
and individually which affects
not only us but
the Earth itself.
Tiffany Barsotti is
here with us today
to share about how confusion
and doubt are allowing
the world and its people to be
propagandized and controlled.
We're also going to talk about
how we can transform this.
Welcome back, Tiffany--
>>BARSOTTI: Thank you.
>>REGINA: --with your
beautiful red curls.
>>BARSOTTI: Thank you.
>>REGINA: It's always
so fun to look at you.
>>BARSOTTI: Oh, the same.
I have the same
equal view of beauty.
Thank you.
>>REGINA: So this is-- wow, OK.
First of all, let's talk
about the notion of a word
that a lot of people
haven't heard,
which is menticide which
is a fabulous word.
When I was reading this, I
thought, boy, does that--
does that explain the
times because people aren't
thinking clearly anymore.
So first of all, tell
us what menticide is.
>>BARSOTTI: So I wish I could
take ownership of that word.
It's not something that I
coined, but it came from--
it's a Dutch psychiatrist
whose name is Joost, J-O-O-S-T,
Meerloo.
And he-- M-E-E-R-L-O-O. He
was studying brainwashing,
and in the times of--
this time when television was
first coming out and seeing
habits of people and what was
going on with people's minds,
he started-- he coined
this phrase of menticide,
that he sees where the
technology could be
used against us in the future.
But it's also how a
person can gain control
over another person
and in the-- and that
comes up in the
form of gaslighting
as you were just saying.
And narcissists have a-- and
psychopaths and sociopaths have
a real handle on that
as a habit and anyway,
I know we'll get further into--
>>REGINA: Well, we will
get further into it.
And as we said in
the very beginning,
this is not just personal.
This is collective.
We're being gaslit
by institutions.
We're being gaslit on a very
important topic of our times
We are being gaslit by
politicians all the time.
They take something and
literally reframe it
in the opposite direction.
And it is one of those
where you just-- it's
hard not to become angry
and insulted at it.
But before we go there, let's
go to Carl Jung because I
took this out off of you, OK?
It says, this is
something he said
and this really is what
we're going to get down to.
"Until you make the
unconscious conscious,
it will direct our lives
and you will call it fate."
Right?
>>BARSOTTI: Yes, yes.
And I'd like to make a little
distinction here, a clearer
distinction because I think that
we can get a little confused
about what is fate and what is
destiny because you could say,
we're fated to be
in these times.
So to tease that
out a little bit,
and I'm influenced by
Michael Meade's work
in this area, is fate is the
family that we're born into.
The people that we end up
traversing our lives with.
Destiny is how it is that
we move along the choices
that we make, whether or
not we're creating karma
with those people.
How engaged are we in
a healthy way and that
creates our destiny.
>>REGINA: Yes, and that's a good
differentiation between the two
and thank you for sharing that.
So now, let's start getting
into some of what's happening
and some of what
we're being challenged
with because there's so much.
One of them is our right to say
yes or no, our right to say no.
Our personal sovereignty.
Now, we're seeing this all over
the world right now in regards
to the virus that's been
around for a year or two.
Now, draconian practices
are setting in,
certain governments are saying,
you-- we are mandating this,
you shall do this or you shall
lose your employment and such.
Whoa.
No one saw it going--
well, very few people
saw it going this far.
So let's talk about
what happens when you're
propagandized into fear, and
then you're told you do this
or else.
>>BARSOTTI: Yeah,
this is the menticide.
This is where you must
comply, and otherwise you're
going to lose whatever you have
deemed as your way of having
comfort in the world.
And I do want to say and
actually give voice to,
we're all probably about to
be even more uncomfortable
for a little while here.
>>REGINA: Explain
what you mean by that.
>>BARSOTTI: So this is--
what's actually being
called right now
The Great Resignation.
There's a lot of people.
>>REGINA: I was calling it
The Great Revelation but now
resignation.
>>BARSOTTI: [LAUGHS]
>>REGINA: Yikes.
>>BARSOTTI: Yeah, because--
>>REGINA: Talk about that.
>>BARSOTTI: --people
are quitting their jobs.
They are-- they're
deciding, no, I
don't want to succumb my choices
to what the mainframe is.
I want to unplug.
I want to do the things
that are more true to self.
Even some people may not even
know what that true to self
move is yet.
But they are wanting--
they're resigning
out of the fact
that they're choosing
their own lives.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>BARSOTTI: Yes.
>>REGINA: Which is amazing.
I mean, this is
across the board.
And these are usually jobs
that people aren't particularly
happy with to begin with.
It's just to make a buck.
They're underpaid
for their efforts.
Oftentimes, they have a whole
other life agenda paralleling
it, where someone
wants to be a writer,
and they're spending
their daytime writing,
waiting on tables at night.
And it's been
interesting because there
was subsidy for this,
in the United States
for sure, but in other
countries as well.
And now the subsidy ends.
Now, what happens?
>>BARSOTTI: Well, this is
what I mean about getting
very uncomfortable, right?
So this is-- to me, I see
this as an initiation.
We are in a time of
becoming an initiate
or you're going to go the
way of indoctrination.
And the indoctrination is
not usually of your making.
So it's a choice.
We're in this choice
factor, and this
becomes a real opportunity for
us to get into our creativity.
What's the thing that
you always wanted to do
that you haven't done yet?
>>REGINA: This is like
the perfect time to do it.
Everything else is
coming unglued so
do what you want to do.
I agree with you.
There's never been
a more perfect time
to be yourself and
follow your passion.
You're so right.
>>BARSOTTI: And
believe yourself.
Just start believing
yourself because the antidote
to menticide is
believing in yourself.
But when we have all this
confusion about what's true,
what's not true,
science says this,
science says that,
people who I've
trusted, people who I've known.
All of these sort
of things are--
they're here for us to start
questioning because we have
lost that ability to question.
That actually begins
with the church.
>>REGINA: Oh yeah.
>>BARSOTTI: Don't question
your spiritual nature.
>>REGINA: Oh, absolutely.
>>BARSOTTI: Don't question--
>>REGINA: Don't question the
official narrative, ever.
>>BARSOTTI: Same thing.
Same thing.
>>REGINA: So you mentioned
the word confusion and that's
a really big part of it.
You say that when
we're confused,
it almost puts us in a
trance-like state, right?
>>BARSOTTI: Yes.
>>REGINA: There's a freezing
pattern of some kind that
goes on there.
And I'd like you to talk
about confusion for a bit
because I'm noticing so many
people-- just exasperated,
intelligent bright people,
saying I just have no idea what
to believe anymore.
Lost their bearings.
>>BARSOTTI: Yep.
So confusion literally,
from looking at it
from a brain analysis,
it's like a state of shock.
If you've ever been in
an accident of any type,
whether it's a car accident
or a horse-riding accident
or any-- skiing
accident, whatever,
your body is in a type of shock.
And everything
around you becomes
how the basis of
reality then starts
to operate because you've
lost your own center.
So in that, literally, it's like
you put your car in neutral,
your brain is in neutral.
You're not thinking
for yourself anymore.
So evidence of this
is when a person says,
I don't know a lot, and
when they say, I don't know,
that is a sign that
there's confusion.
Well, the interesting thing
is that confusion is always
coming from outside ourselves.
It's never an internal.
Internally, we're
never confused.
We know but we have to get
back to that knowing, right?
The gnosis piece.
>>REGINA: Gnosis.
Mm-hmm.
>>BARSOTTI: Yes.
And there is a difference
between karnal knowledge
with a K and gnosis
with a G, that we
can have our inner knowing.
And that's the real
opportunity here
is to come back into
that center of who
are we, what am I here to do.
Get back into soul's purpose.
>>REGINA: And people have been
overriding that for a long time
now.
In fact, I was listening to--
oh, I think it was one
of "The New York Times"
podcasts, "The Daily," and
they were talking about--
and a lot of it, I don't--
I'm not really in alignment with
some of it, some of it I am,
depending on the reporter.
But this had to do with--
had to do with how we started
disconnecting from, you might
say, collectively agreed
upon belief systems,
talking about the
beginning with 9/11, where
what happens when you're not
told the truth about something.
It's a free-for-all
to try to fill
in the gaps and the pieces.
So let's talk about what happens
when these larger stories are
not based on truth.
Our body and our heart
and soul knows we're--
something's wrong, but we
don't know where to go with it.
So either we buy into
the official narrative
or we go wherever we want.
Let's talk about
this whole phenomena.
>>BARSOTTI: A few
really important topics
on that, it's such
an important piece
because it helps keep the
menticide actually going.
There's a term in NLP
called open loops.
And it's where you leave in
the middle of a conversation,
you don't finish the thought.
So the brain goes, OK,
registered that, that's open.
And then, you can get it filled
in with a missing piece that
might come from
either someplace else,
but what it does is it leaves
a little bit of an opening
for an opportunity for
somebody else's idea
to come in there
because you're hanging,
you're waiting until
that gets filled in.
The other side of
that piece with--
neurolinguistic programming
is what NLP stands for,
and used correctly, it can
be quite a healing tool,
but used incorrectly,
it's a game--
it's a play-- it's part of
the playbook of the menticide.
So the thing that's really
interesting about how
we can use brain programming is
you can tell somebody something
three times.
By the time they've
heard it a fourth time,
it's a truth even though
it's not the truth.
>>REGINA: This is true.
This happened when
there were surveys
done on what had happened during
the early years of the Iraq
War.
And I've forgotten who ran it.
This is quite a long time
ago, I read about it,
where people were--
at one time, when
they learned there
were no weapons of
mass destruction,
that was a lie, right?
And people-- ratings for
the president at the time
started dropping and
people understood that.
They went back a
couple of years later,
that had completely reversed.
Were there weapons
of mass destruction?
These samplees, these
people, who were polled,
believed it again.
It was as though whatever
had intervened for a moment,
by way of logic, was
gone back to this program
narrative in their mind.
>>BARSOTTI: That's case in
point of both the open loop
and the fact that you're
going to come back and say
something a third and a
fourth and a fifth time.
And then you're just
going to adopt it.
The discernment is
the answer here.
Coming back into
believing ourselves.
Yes, we're all being sold.
If we could just understand
that we are in a playbook.
Right?
And well, who are you
going to be in that play?
Are you going to choose your
sovereign nature or are you
going to choose the
indoctrination of somebody
else's beliefs?
That's the real test, to see a
test of the initiate right now.
We can walk through--
we can fall in the hole
or we can go through the portal.
>>REGINA: So this
notion of regaining
this sovereignty
and this discernment
oftentimes pits you against
the outside world, right?
Because your family is all
watching the same television
station.
They're all buying
the same story.
And you're going to
unplug now for a moment,
and you're going to
think, wait a minute,
that does not feel right to me.
And then you have to be
willing to take whatever
steps necessary, whether
it's a conversation,
whether you keep it
to yourself, but it
creates separate--
we're already in a state
of great separation--
creates even more separation
when you start taking
back your own mind.
And sovereignty, again, for a
lot of people, very difficult
because that means
you might have
to even break from the tribe.
>>BARSOTTI: Well, I've had that
happen in my personal life.
And I want to share
something with you.
I haven't actually
spoken of this at all,
but in the early times
of when COVID was--
all this, the SARS-CoV-2
was coming out,
and Paul, my husband,
who's a scientist, we're
looking at this going,
wow, OK, is there
really something to fear here?
At first, we were reacting
like there really was.
And then, not to
say that there--
I don't mean to discount
anybody who's gotten sick,
that's not the point.
But when I took this
into my own asking,
like let me just sit
quiet here for a moment
and ask what is really
going on, the words I heard
were Ponzi scheme.
And I was like, huh?
And this was like the
couple-- first couple of weeks
into the whole thing.
And it didn't make
any sense to me.
>>REGINA: [LAUGHS] Oh, yes.
I know because you're
quite intuitive
and you do get these messages.
>>BARSOTTI: And there's--
>>REGINA: I got one right
when the first couple of cases
came out too, so
continue on with what
you're saying because it's
right in alignment with yours.
>>BARSOTTI: Oh, interesting.
>>REGINA: And I did get
COVID, by the way, it's real.
It's a nasty little
spike protein
that shouldn't be there.
It shouldn't be in our body,
shouldn't be in vaccines,
shouldn't be there.
>>BARSOTTI: Right.
>>REGINA: But it's there.
>>BARSOTTI: But it's there.
>>REGINA: It's
there, so go ahead.
>>BARSOTTI: Well, it's
just living through--
once you discern for yourself
what you think the truth is you
can't go back.
And if you do, you're
lying on yourself.
And it's not a good place.
>>REGINA: Self-deception
is not a good place.
>>BARSOTTI: It's not a
good place to operate from.
So just-- let's
just not do that.
And also, to understand that
now we have to navigate really--
I'm going to use the word in an
affectionate way that is still
coming from loving kindness
because other people, who
are not necessarily
seeing it that way
and are operating out of a
fear, they still need grace.
They need a loving kindness
because they're not seeing it.
So I have a--
the saying is that the
most flexible person
is the most responsible because
you have the flexibility
to be able to see what the heck
is going on and read the tea
leaves.
And then be able to
modulate and adjust
and know who you can
say what to and so, yes.
But I have been
discredited and removed
from many people's
tribe, if you will.
>>REGINA: And I have two.
I've lost friends over this.
And it's interesting because
the way people's minds
went, no, we had 9/11.
We've had many different
discombobulating
events over the last 20 years.
But I'd say,
certainly, the virus
is the most
discombobulating because it
was the largest, if you want to
look at it as a top-down thing,
perhaps agenda, right?
There's a lot to gain.
There's a lot to gain for
certain people in this story
and in the drugs, et cetera.
So the amount of
manipulation that
had to happen to get a
planet to fall into lockstep
is almost-- it's
more mind-boggling
than anything I
certainly have witnessed
in my lifetime or any of us
have probably in many lifetimes.
So now, we're at the feet of it.
>>BARSOTTI: Well, we're at
the precipice of change,
and we can either--
it's all about our
choice, and this
has to do with our
sovereignty, right?
If we don't have choice,
then what do we have?
And this is what's really
come up to question.
>>REGINA: It really has.
So what happens when you
have a job that you love,
you're a professor at a
university, and they tell you--
and you feel, no, it's not
right for me personally.
I don't want to have a
vaccination, for example.
And you're forced to
or you lose your job.
Now, we're getting
down to crunch time
when it comes to people standing
by their internal truths.
>>BARSOTTI: Yep, that's true.
And if we don't,
then what do we have?
>>REGINA: What do we have?
>>BARSOTTI: We just
go into the masses.
We have a repeat of history.
And we already know how
some of these have gone.
So let us find that
strength and not
falling into an indoctrination
but rather the individuation.
The individuation is painful.
It can be.
I don't want to say, call it
out to be painful for everybody.
It doesn't have to
be painful it just
requires such a conviction.
And Jung taught
deeply about, we must
individuate before
we can actually
do group consciousness.
And this is really true.
And yes, it feels good
to be of like mind
and with people that are--
we're moving in
the same direction.
And also asking ourselves what
needs to be reformed right now?
There's a lot that
needs to be reformed,
and astrologically speaking,
we're in this time.
And you know what's
also interesting is
in Steiner's look of--
Rudolf Steiner's look at
some of the astrology,
we're in the same
time that the Essenes
were when their whole
community was taken apart.
And we had to-- they
had to see the truth.
And to be able to go to
safe places so creating
parallel structures
is also the answer
to getting out of menticide.
>>REGINA: Yes.
There is an Afterskool, After
S-K-O-O-L, those videos.
I love that.
I love that site and
what they put out.
And it was called
"Mass Psychosis."
>>BARSOTTI: "Mass Psychosis."
>>REGINA: You saw it?
>>BARSOTTI: Yep.
>>REGINA: OK.
I would encourage anybody
that hasn't seen it to go to--
on YouTube, Afterskool, and the
keywords are mass psychosis.
And what you just said
really triggered it for me,
and that is, as they get toward
the end of explaining how
it happens and they did it
so beautifully, as you are,
they said in the
end, you're not going
to stop psychopaths
or narcissists.
>>BARSOTTI: No.
>>REGINA: But you can
create parallel structures,
parallel societies,
and we'll get
to that toward the end because
that's more-- the healing
element, but not
to despair here.
So meanwhile, we're on
this propaganda wagon.
We're watching communities
and families split apart.
And doubt is, as you call it,
the on-ramp to that doubt.
And so now, this can go to--
this leads to the subject we
mentioned earlier, gaslighting.
This has become a
really common phenomena
not just from within
relationships of individuals
but from institutions,
politicians, I mean,
it's just awful.
So first of all, some
people have heard the term
but don't know what it means.
So talk about
gaslighting for a moment,
explain what it is first.
>>BARSOTTI: And while
it's top of mind,
I want to mention
that it's like--
there's a scientific
experiment that
was done where you put frogs
in water and it's cool water.
And you start to
turn up the heat.
Well, the frogs don't jump
out because it's so gradual.
You don't even know it.
You don't know what's happening.
So gaslighting can sneak
up on you a little bit.
>>REGINA: Explain
what it is first,
and let's talk about
how it sneaks up.
>>BARSOTTI: Yes.
So gaslighting is when
you know something
to be true in
yourself and somebody
is telling you that's not
true, it's not reality.
It's a crazy-making tactic.
It's intent-- the
person is actually--
it's an emotional abuse with
manipulation at its core.
So it's looking,
and the goal of it
is to overpower and to
control another person.
And so, there's
actually a play, I
think it was done
in 1938 or '39,
that was also turned into
a movie about gaslighting.
And one of the examples
that's in that play
is where the man who
is the protagonist
is telling his wife--
she wants to turn out a
light that's flickering.
And he says, that
light's not flickering,
that light is flickering.
Well, anybody-- yes, the
light was flickering,
but he tells her to
the point that she
starts to go mad that that
light isn't flickering.
It's a benign example,
but you are being told
that down is up and up is down.
>>REGINA: And we're
having this everywhere,
in the world of
science right now.
There's this raging
debate going on,
and you have statistics
actually turned upside down.
Case studies turned upside
down in one media outlet
and then turn the
other way in another.
And how is anyone--
why shouldn't people
say, I'm totally
confused and don't
know what to believe
anymore, especially when
we're coming to the world
of science too which
is supposed to have a
little bit more objectivity.
It's supposed to have, but we
know it doesn't necessarily.
It depends who funds the study.
[LAUGHS]
>>BARSOTTI: Most definitely.
And actually, I have
a saying that science
has been hijacked by industry.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
>>BARSOTTI: Like the mystics
were hijacked by religion.
We have the same
thing playing out now.
And yeah, you can
actually take statistics
and make it say anything
you want it to say, right?
But true scientists, there
are many of them that
are becoming whistleblowers.
There's many of them
that are speaking
truths, that are
writing open letters,
putting their
reputations on the line.
>>REGINA: Yes, there are.
>>BARSOTTI: There's a lot
and-- oh, God bless them--
because we need this call
to honesty, call to truth.
And when we're confused, we
don't know what truth is.
But internally, we do
know what truth is.
So the gaslighter,
to go back to that,
is essentially
telling you what you
believe to be true isn't and
their reality is the truth.
And you need to conform
to their reality.
>>REGINA: This is an
epidemic right now.
>>BARSOTTI: That's the pandemic.
>>REGINA: Yeah the
pandemic is gaslighting.
[LAUGHTER]
And one of the tactics too
is to obscure change topics,
so you forget where you
were, think, wait a minute,
I don't think we were talking
about that, and, boom,
you're on to something
else entirely.
>>BARSOTTI: Open loop.
>>REGINA: OK.
There you go.
>>BARSOTTI: It's an open loop.
So it's another way to--
>>REGINA: It's like
a bait and switch.
>>BARSOTTI: It is.
>>REGINA: Uh-huh.
And you watch--
I mean, I can't even watch
the news, not any outlet.
No.
No more.
Uh-uh.
I'm done.
And I try to find people who
I think have reasonable minds
and are independent thinkers
and follow their columns
and so forth.
And even so, that is reinforcing
your own point of view
to a certain extent.
OK, let me bring that part in.
That's another part
of the problem.
The film "The Social
Dilemma," right?
How we are reinforcing
our preferences
over and over and over.
Where does that come into the
notion of being propagandized,
gaslit, manipulated?
>>BARSOTTI: Technology.
This is Meerloo's point
about how with the advent
of television, what you're
able to do is hijack the mind.
You get somebody--
have you ever tried
speaking to a kid when they
are so deeply into something?
No matter how many times
you call their name,
you're not going to
get their attention.
They're in a trance.
I mean, it's a perfect
state of neutrality.
Now, we all love
entertainment like anybody
else loves entertainment.
A good movie is fantastic.
I love the Marvel movies because
there's elements of truth and--
>>REGINA: Oh, there
are a few good ones.
>>BARSOTTI: --heroism,
and there's so--
there's such good truth
telling in there, and--
>>REGINA: Yeah, there
are some good ones.
>>BARSOTTI: --we need
to find our superpower--
>>REGINA: I think we're
looking for-- we're
heroes in our-- we're
looking for our own heroes,
and we're looking
for the hero within,
and we can cheer
them on, and hope
that we have a little
bit of that in us,
but go ahead with
what you're saying.
>>BARSOTTI: That's true.
And that's actually
what it takes.
It's a heroic effort
in order to get out
of a gaslighting or narcissistic
relationship in that regard.
So it takes that empowered
movement to, wow,
OK, I am starting to see this.
And with us having
a conversation
about it and it being much more
prevalent today where people
are saying, that's gaslighting.
There is an aspect of
"The Social Dilemma,"
that is happening as well.
This-- what is it?
>>REGINA: The
algorithmic reinforcement
of your preferences.
You don't hear any kind of
opposition to your story.
It keeps refining and refining
what it's going to feed you.
So I mean, it's
interesting when you're
trying to find
sovereignty of mind
when you're choosing to
have your own preferences
reinforced, meaning you're
not allowing outside data
or points of view in.
>>BARSOTTI: Yes.
So my favorite
phrase is something
that Paul and I say a lot as
well is, that's interesting.
So when something comes up, it's
like doing a pattern interrupt
to it because those
preferences, they're
looking for little hooks.
And those little hooks
are what can take you
on the rabbit trail of
where they want you to go,
and that discernment, that--
you're staying
true to ourselves,
and realizing, ah,
that's what's happening.
So it takes an
observer's point of view.
Backing out a
little bit and being
able to not go full steam
into what another's agenda is.
>>REGINA: It's true.
And also, as I was just
mentioning a minute ago,
we have to be careful not to
do that even with ourselves
in a certain way.
This is where it gets
tricky because, as you say,
we don't want to allow someone
else's version of reality
or us that just contradicts
our internal gnosis to have
an influence to the point
of where we're confused
and we're ineffective.
We can't make clear
decisions anymore.
We don't want that,
but we don't want
to put ourselves in a situation
where we're so narrowed down
in our single-minded preferences
that our own minds can't
operate and broaden
out anymore either.
>>BARSOTTI: Exactly.
>>REGINA: It's
kind of both sides
are being challenged right now.
>>BARSOTTI: I mean,
we're in a tough spot.
This is go-time for humanity
to wake up and become
the initiate.
There's a Hopi prophecy
that was sent to me.
I think it's White
Eagle, and we're
saying a lot of the same things.
When I read this prophecy, I
was like, oh, this is exactly--
and he says it's either
a door or a hole.
And we're at that place now.
What are you choosing?
And I don't mean to be
a broken record here,
but that is the thing.
We must engage our
ability to choose and find
that sovereignty.
And a lot of people
will say, well,
I don't know what that is.
That's an inside
job because even
as somebody that helps people
on the path as everybody
that you talk to is
essentially wanting to do,
you can guide a person but
it's their internal compass
that needs to be
reactivated and turned on.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
>>BARSOTTI: There's only so much
you can do for another human.
They have to want it
and engage with it.
But that comfort
even with people
who are empaths and narcissists
that are in a relationship--
>>REGINA: Well, we're going to
get to that, well, right now.
Let's go for it.
You said empaths
and narcissists are
finding each other
now, and creating
alliances and relationships
collectively and individually.
Let's talk about it.
>>BARSOTTI: So is this
really in a bigger number
or do we just have now
more of an understanding
of these kind of behaviors?
And I think with--
it's a good question.
>>REGINA: I don't know.
>>BARSOTTI: I don't have
the answer to it either.
So what I'm seeing clairvoyantly
right now when I look at,
is this a numbers thing?
Is this a behavioral
type of thing?
Is this just another label?
But I have a lot of people
that contact me for,
oh, I just discovered I'm
a high-sensitivity person.
I'm an empath.
They've got this
label for it now.
It's-- OK.
I'm a recovering empath.
So I think we can both have deep
conversations on this, right?
So what I see is
this Mobius strip.
This is the vision that I had.
And it's what was--
a Mobius strip is--
it's a three-dimensional
or multidimensional shape
where you-- what
was on the bottom
is now on the top
and vice versa.
And so, what we're seeing--
>>REGINA: Also called
an infinity loop.
>>BARSOTTI: It is
>>REGINA: Yeah, exactly.
>>BARSOTTI: Absolutely.
And so but this pinch that we're
at right in the middle right
now is this
incredible discomfort
of having the realization,
oh my god, I'm
in a narcissistic relationship.
Oh my god, I'm a
high-sensitivity person.
I hate being called sensitive.
Oh my god, I'm an empath.
What do I do now?
Right?
So it's great that
this awakening
is happening in this, who am I?
And why is it such an
increase in numbers?
It's because we need
all hands on deck
and we need the emotional
sensitivity now.
We don't need to be so mental.
That's where the
menticide can grab
all of these
illusions of grandeur
that we have or just
illusions, period.
>>REGINA: Well, and where
you can misuse the mind
toward things like gaslighting.
That's a very mental process.
It's not kind.
And I-- and you said, is
this a numbers thing or what?
I think it must be gaining
in numbers because I'm
seeing articles pop up in some
of the strangest mainstream
places about gaslighting,
specifically.
I mean, it's coming up
in conversation where
two or three years
ago most people
had never heard the
term, and certainly
didn't know what it meant.
Now, it's pretty common
even if a lot of people
are misusing it.
There's-- it's still part of
our vernacular now for a reason.
>>BARSOTTI: Absolutely.
And what I will
speak to here is,
I have a lot of clients
who were gaslit as a child.
And when we say,
drop into your heart
and seek the light of truth.
Put truth in your life.
And if you were a
child who was gaslit,
you may not understand that
up is really up and down
is really down.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>BARSOTTI: That
really is a confusion.
>>REGINA: That's
a false platform.
>>BARSOTTI: Right.
And then as an adult, if you're
in one of those situations,
you are being called to
action for what do you
know to be true?
And now, how do you navigate?
Appropriate boundaries,
discernment,
being able to make
healthy choices,
choosing yourself
first, loving others
from the overflow of the love
that you have for yourself,
not rescuing people.
That's the magnetic pull of
the narcissist and the empath.
>>REGINA: What do they both
have to learn if you're
going to put it in a capsule?
>>BARSOTTI: Yeah.
So the narcissist is actually
learning about emotions
and learning how to become
sensitive because the actual--
if you were to take
it apart and look
what was it going on in that
narcissist's early life,
there was a sensitivity
there that was denied.
Or it was beat the
crap out of, right?
So they didn't-- it was
misunderstood and ill-directed,
and--
>>REGINA: So they had to
form their own sense of self
in whatever way they could.
>>BARSOTTI: Right.
And oftentimes, they're
the ones that were
the bullies in the classes.
They're the ones that
sought to overpower another
because they were so
underpowered in their life
at home or in another
facet of their life
that they needed to
figure out, well,
I need to have some
power structure here.
And hurt people, hurt people.
They will.
That's not permission.
But that is what will happen.
It's just this
trickle-down effect.
And in this C pinch,
now we're in the choice.
I am not choosing to do
what has been done to me.
I am not going to
continue on this--
>>REGINA: Break this cycle.
>>BARSOTTI: --karmic journey.
I've got my own dharma
to live, what is it?
That's the biggest question
that we get to ask ourselves.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
You just talked about
what the narcissist has
to learn in some of the
underpinnings of narcissism
from childhood.
Let's talk about what the
empaths have to learn.
>>BARSOTTI: So the
empaths are known--
they know that
they're sensitive.
They're feeling everything.
And they may have not come
up like adult children
of alcoholics, right?
ACA-type people.
They had to learn,
how do I navigate
in this environment that
feels very unsafe right now?
So you're not just reading
how you feel, you're reading,
is it safe to come
out of my room?
Is it safe to come
out of the closet?
Can I put this book down?
Should I go in the house?
All of these things
are coming up
for them reading the tea
leaves of, is it safe?
So that's this
turned-on sensitivity.
And there's the--
it's interesting.
>>REGINA: And they're also
often pleasers as a result.
>>BARSOTTI: Rescuers
and pleasers.
>>REGINA: You want
everybody to be happy.
You can't take the stress.
>>BARSOTTI: Rescuers
and pleasers.
Absolutely.
And anxiety oftentimes
is borne out of that
because there's an anxiety
that can show itself
as like an absorption of
everybody's emotions and/or
it can come out of control.
So you can actually have this--
it's a two-edged sword because
I know many empaths that
are staying in
those relationships
because it's where they feel
they have a job and value.
They're staying-- the
empaths are staying
in unhealthy relationships
because there's a sense of,
I'm doing good here.
>>REGINA: Right.
I can help.
>>BARSOTTI: I can help.
And that's all they
ever wanted to do,
but because they
were so misunderstood
in other relationships
or in their childhood,
this was a way that they got to
have a freedom of expression.
But most of them are
denying who they really are.
They're living for other,
not living for themselves.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
And don't have boundaries.
That's a big one.
They don't have any boundaries.
>>BARSOTTI: Yes.
Well, that's what they're
here learning, so the--
>>REGINA: To understand for
yourself and learn to when
to say no, and to not--
I think for empaths, a lot of it
is, how to stand for yourself,
how to create your boundaries,
but not shut your heart down
because of the pain
and disillusionment.
Keep the heart open
and create boundaries.
I think that's a huge
challenge for a lot of humanity
right now.
>>BARSOTTI: It is.
>>REGINA: I mean, you look--
like the friends you've lost
and associations you've lost
because of all the conflicted
thinking right now.
I have too.
And it's easy to then
slip into judgment
and start losing your love.
And that's not it either.
>>BARSOTTI: No.
We need to find
the path of love.
How would some of
the master teachers
that you've known in
your life deal with this?
What's the next
right thing to do?
Yeah.
>>REGINA: And I said this at
the very beginning of the show,
this isn't just about us.
Our collective
emotional field is
intertwined with Earth's
own emotional dimension.
So let's talk about
that now because it's
the chicken or the egg.
Is it the cosmos?
Is it the Earth?
Is it us?
Is everyone going
crazy together?
Is this chaos?
Where is the chaos coming from?
But it is a time of chaos.
So talk about that
interrelationship
with our lovely planet.
>>BARSOTTI: Yeah.
It's-- I think this
is really interesting.
This is another
clairvoyant vision I had
of this increase in numbers,
of this Mobius, this moving
from what was below,
what was in the descent
before is now on top, et cetera.
So when we are
being in our power,
we're actually helping
our Mother Earth,
our beloved goddess,
Mother Earth.
When we are taking
responsibility
for our emotions, this is
a blessing in so many ways.
But there's
something else that I
see that has to do with
our own methylation.
So methylation are our pathways
to be able to even detox
our bodies, right?
So when we think about
the fracking of the earth
that we have been doing, the
planetary bodies, if you will,
are a mimic of our
fields, you could say.
And, in fact, I've
often wondered,
why from a bio-field
sciences point of view,
why don't we have
a map of this yet.
I am working on this.
But we don't have a full
understanding of that
we-- from an astrophysics
point of view,
we know the troposphere.
We know the magnetosphere.
We know the ionosphere.
We know that there's different
properties within them.
So the earth has
this ability to be
able to have compost
our emotions to take it.
In fact, one of my favorite
grounding exercises
is to imagine that
you've got roots
that are coming out of your
waist, not just your feet.
But they help us to
dump off the things that
are no longer serving
because our beloved Earth has
the ability to compost it.
What she doesn't
have the ability
to do is deal with the
fracking and all of this--
the damming up of things,
of ruining waterways,
of polluting--
>>REGINA: Incredibly invasive,
even violent actions.
>>BARSOTTI: That's the
genocide that we've
been doing to our Earth.
So that's very
much a real thing.
And when we think about
it and we couple it
with the menticide
of what's going on.
And it's all about
power and control.
And we're thinking that we
can have dominion in that way.
That's just-- it's
such a fallacy,
but yet we're in it right now.
So shining the
light of truth on,
should I be dumping this
right here right now?
Whether it's emotional
baggage or whether meaning
to a group of people.
Or should I be processing it?
What can I process myself?
Because that's the key before
you even do a grounding
exercise.
Process what it is.
What was the intention about
having that interaction
with the person that we were
intending to teach ourselves
in that moment?
And then, as we process it, get
the gold out of that situation.
And then release what
the whole scenario was.
That's the letting go.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
And also, when we're looking at
these larger patterns of where
we are right now in
this chaotic time
is in childhood development.
They always say
that before there's
a breakthrough and
a movement upward,
there's a regressive
state, and that we
go into a bit of a regression,
suck our thumb for a little bit
before we break
through and let go
of the binkie and the
blanket and everything.
And it seems like
there might be some
of that going on too
because in a way,
it seems as though we have
digressed on a scale of just
consideration, kindness,
gentlemanly, gentlewomanliness.
Those are values that seem to
be left behind in my father's
generation by now.
And those were useful values.
You don't see that.
It's not reflected in
the media or anywhere.
So I think we've been in a
bit of a regressive stage.
It means we're ready to
throw away the binkie.
[LAUGHS]
>>BARSOTTI: Yes,
I totally agree.
>>REGINA: And I wanted to
ask you a quick question.
And at the very end, I want
to ask you about a film.
So you and Paul are
teaching a class on personal
self-integration during--
in the midst of all this.
Tell us a little bit
about what you do.
>>BARSOTTI: Yeah.
It's-- you know the--
I didn't expect it
but what emerged out
of the personal
self-integration and what
personal self-integration is, is
the meeting of our subconscious
selves and our inner child.
And we have more than just
the flesh, blood, and bones
and regular subconscious.
There's more to it of who's the
archetype of our mental sphere?
Who's the archetype
of our emotional body?
And in those regions,
our body self.
These are aspects of us
that have an intelligence,
an innate knowing.
But they can be also part
of us, that's the binkie--
sucking our thumb,
not wanting to grow up
or having some
recalcitrants around that.
What emerged out of the
course was this sovereignty.
And many enlightenment
experiences
came of people just--
wow, I am not the body.
It was just so clear.
It wasn't necessarily,
yes, I mean
we intend that for all of us
and it's not-- unfortunately,
it's not one of these
things like it's
a poster you put on your
wall, like a diploma, like,
OK, I got it.
I'm enlightened, I'm good.
No, this is a continual
place of work for us
because values,
as you mentioned,
that being nice, being
gentlemanly, being womanly,
being kind, all of that.
These are our value systems.
Well, much of that is how it is
that we behave subconsciously.
And what are we putting into
motion with our thoughts,
what we're putting
out in the world,
and how it is that we operate.
So we're seeking and do with
personal self-integration
to make the
unconscious conscious.
Back to that original
quote of Carl Jung--
>>REGINA: Jung, yeah.
>>BARSOTTI: --which I think
is so timely right now.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
And we have to see
our part, where
we are-- where are we in
this generational structure
of evolution or devolution?
Where are we in it?
It's interesting.
I watched my father
and his friends.
He's in an assisted
care facility.
He's 91 and he
needs a lot of help.
And we see him a lot, and he
talks about his social life
there.
But when you watch them,
the people are courteous.
There's still the
old-fashioned courtesy.
When you look at what's
happening out and about right
now in the streets,
it's not very kind
and courteous a lot of times.
And I think we can look
to the older generation
to bring back a certain
level of refinement.
As an external to
all of this, just
bring back a little bit of
consideration and kindness
and courteousness and
truth And then blend it
with what you're saying,
this deep inner work,
and I think we're
going to be fine.
We just have to find it again.
>>BARSOTTI: And finding
that compassion.
And the beautiful thing
about being an empath
is the sensitivity to feeling
what others are feeling.
But you don't want to lose
yourself in the midst of that.
So it can be a bridge
to helping compassion
be what is the leading force.
And so but we're not
meant to lose ourselves--
>>REGINA: No.
>>BARSOTTI: --in that.
So the being kind, if we could
just get back to what that is
or just find it for
ourselves, and emulate,
put it out there in
every way that we can.
>>REGINA: I agree.
It's called for right now.
>>BARSOTTI: It is.
>>REGINA: In spades.
And I wanted to share have
you seen the movie, "Free
Guy" with Ryan Reynolds?
>>BARSOTTI: No.
>>REGINA: Oh my god.
I love that film.
It's in the theaters, and
it'll be on video soon,
and I'm sure on streaming.
But I won't tell--
I don't want to give
any of the plot away.
Fabulous characters.
Very original
screenplay concept.
Great CGI.
But it's about average
person claiming their freedom
underneath these
powers of control--
these systems of control.
It's beautiful.
And it's sweet and
it has love in it.
It's just one of
the bright spots
that I'm finding in
entertainment right now.
>>BARSOTTI: Fantastic.
>>REGINA: So I just wanted
to share that with you
and share it with everybody.
>>BARSOTTI: Thank you.
I'm happy to know it.
>>REGINA: So Tiffany,
thank you so much
just for putting sanity
around what we're all
encountering every day.
You're always very clear in
your articulation of themes that
get all jumbled inside people.
I really appreciate it.
>>BARSOTTI: Oh, well.
>>REGINA: [LAUGHS]
>>BARSOTTI: I appreciate having
the forum with you because you
are very clear, and you help
a lot of people to shine
the light of truth
where we need to have--
>>REGINA: That's what
we're trying to do here.
>>BARSOTTI: --the light shone.
Exactly.
>>REGINA: Thank you so
much, and until next time.
>>BARSOTTI: Until next time.
Thank you.
>>REGINA: I hope this has been
helpful for any of you who
have been feeling a
little bit crazy lately.
You can dive into Tiffany's work
by going to healandthrive.com.
To get to know her
a little bit better,
you can also watch my previous
interviews with her on Gaia.
Until next time, thank
you for joining us here
on "Open Minds."
[MUSIC PLAYING]